War of the Lilies:

1415 - Battle of Agincourt.

1419 - English alliance with Burgundy.

1420 - The Treaty of Troyes is signed, ensuring that King Henry V and his heirs would rule France after Charles VI's death.

-----PoD-----

1421 - Thomas, Duke of Clarence, leads his troops to victory at the Battle of Baugé. Thomas does not die.

1422 - Henry V dies of dysentery. Due to his brother, the aforementioned Thomas, still being alive, Henry V names Thomas commander of troops in France and designated regent until his son, Henry VI, reaches the age of 15 in December 1436. Charles VI dies October 21.

1424 - Battle of Verneuil. Decisive English victory under Thomas, Duke of Clarence. Charles VII, having taken the throne following his father's death, moves the French royal court to Bourges.

1425 - Following their success at Verneuil, the English move south from Normandy with the aid of Burgundian troops and Swiss mercenaries. Orléans falls.

1426 - English forces receive word of a massive French army in Bourges, preparing for an assault on Orleans. Soldiers under the control of John, the 1st Duke of Bedford and brother of the late Henry V, move north to attack preemptively. The 4000-man strong English force catches the 10000-man strong French force by surprise, winning decisively. Half the French soldiers desert over the course of the battle, and the survivors are taken captive. The royal palace in Bourges is ransacked, and John walks into the throne room to find Charles VII missing, having locked himself in his bedroom. The door is broken down, and Charles VII is found hanging from a chandelier.

1428 - France is defeated. First Regent Thomas, having fallen ill, has split regency duties with John, Second Regent of the English throne. Unrest grows on the Continent. The house of Valois-Anjou, having been ruling in Provence and which had been a functional puppet-house of the house of Plantagenet after the Battle of Verneuil, is approached by representatives of the Dual Regency. Louis III of Anjou is offered the French throne in the Treaty of Bourges, along with control of much of the French interior. Also part of the Treaty, however, is the demand that, upon Henry VI's accession, Louis III will step down from the throne and the Throne of France will pass to Henry VI. The house of Anjou is also granted sovereignty over Lyon, Dauphin, Rouergue, Vendee, Poitiers, and the region of Languedoc. Louis III in turn names his brother, René, ruler of these lands, and leaves the region of Provence to him.

1434 - Louis III dies. Henry VI is only 12. Thomas, having been ill for years, concedes his position as First Regent to John, his brother. Thomas dies a week later. John, at the age of 45 and being in poor health himself, uses his last wish as Regent of England, commanding Parliament to crown Henry VI and make him the proper king, at the age of 12. Henry VI is now King of England, but his title as King of France is disputed by many, including his allies in Burgundy...

January 13, 1435 - Game start.