War of the Lilies:

1415 - Battle of Agincourt.

1419 - English alliance with Burgundy.

1420 - The Treaty of Troyes is signed, ensuring that King Henry V and his heirs would rule France after Charles VI's death.

-----PoD-----

1421 - Thomas, Duke of Clarence, leads his troops to victory at the Battle of Baugé. Thomas does not die.

1422 - Henry V dies of dysentery. Due to his brother, the aforementioned Thomas, still being alive, Henry V names Thomas commander of troops in France and designated regent until his son, Henry VI, reaches the age of 15 in December 1436. Charles VI dies October 21.

1424 - Battle of Verneuil. Decisive English victory under Thomas, Duke of Clarence. Charles VII, having taken the throne following his father's death, moves the French royal court to Bourges.

1425 - Following their success at Verneuil, the English move south from Normandy with the aid of Swiss mercenaries. Orléans falls. Burgundy, seeing the writing on the wall, breaks their alliance with England and offers their aid to the French. The French accept.

late 1426 - English forces receive word of a massive French army in Bourges, preparing for an assault on Orleans. Soldiers under the control of John, the 1st Duke of Bedford and brother of the late Henry V, move north to attack preemptively. The 4000-man strong English force catches the 10000-man strong French force by surprise, winning decisively. Half the French soldiers desert over the course of the battle, and the survivors are taken captive. The royal palace in Bourges is ransacked, and John walks into the throne room to find Charles VII missing, having escaped the city before the siege.

mid 1427 - France is defeated. First Regent Thomas, having fallen ill, has split regency duties with John, Second Regent of the English throne. Unrest grows on the Continent. Many former French vassals, such as Auvergne, Champagne, Orleans, and Toulouse, capitalize on the weakness of the French monarchy and declare independence. A treaty is signed between the Dual Regency and representatives of the French crown. The terms are as follows.

Second Treaty of Troyes

- The Kingdom of France will be ruled by the descendants of Henry V for perpetuity.

- France will cede the regions of Maine, Aquitaine, and parts of Guyenne to England.

- The House of Anjou ceded the city of Angers and surrounding areas as well as the region of Bar-le-Duc to France.

- Burgundy cedes Cambresis and Rethelois to France, and relinquishes control of the County of Nevers to France. Burgundy also grants independence to the rebellious Count of Hainaut.

late 1434 - Henry VI is only 12. Thomas, having been ill for years, concedes his position as First Regent to John, his brother. Thomas dies a week later. John rules England until Henry VI's 15th birthday.

January 13, 1435 - Game start.